Welcome back.
As you may know in JavaScript we have a native error constructor function.
If I go error like this in my console.
Well that's a function that we have a constructor function.
Remember capital letters.
That means it's a constructor function and I can create new instances of these errors by doing new error.
And in here passing a message like whoopsie I run this.
Look at that.
I get an error with whoopsie now.
The error instance which is what we created with the new keyword it doesn't actually do anything.
As you see over here I get something printed out but it's not really an error.
What we need to do instead is to throw an error when we start throwing errors.
That's when things get interesting in JavaScript.
We have the throw keyword.
And when we throw something well your script that we're currently running stops executing or at least
stops executing it unless you're handling this through somehow which will go over.
So when we do something like throw new error I now get a proper error.
What has happened underneath the hood is that the error gets thrown and says All right stop the program
handled the air somehow.
We have an error in our program and this throw statement is used to define our errors.
So during runtime when we run our javascript when a throw statement is encountered by the program the
execution of the current function will stop and control will be passed to the next part of the call
stack.
But before we get into that and how to handle these things let's just go a little bit more over throw.
You see I can throw anything in javascript I can throw a string if I want to do.
There you go.
I can't throw a boolean value if I wanted to.
Nothing too crazy.
I can't even actually throw the error constructor function which is well the function and then obviously
our regular way of throwing an error an instance of the error as you can see when we throw something
it stops the execution of our program so that if I do throw new error and right after it do four plus
three we're never even going to get there because our program gets stopped and says hey we have a problem
let's stop whatever we're doing and throw get outside of the program.
Now this error property has three built in properties for us to use.
Let me show you if I go const my error and do a new error here call it once again whoopsie.
Now when I do my error you see that I have the air right over here but I have three properties.
One is the actual name of the air which is air.
We also have the message property of the air which is as you can see whoopsie.
And the third last one and a very important one is the stack trace which can be accessed through the
stack property and you see over here that that is my stack trace is just a string but it shows me where
the error happened.
In this case it happened inside of an anonymous function which is the main global execution context.
For example if I do function a and inside of this function I do a b variable that has new error.
This one is going to say what and we finally return B and close the function well.
When I run a now I see that I get a stack trace I get the first item on the stack which is the global
anonymous global execution context.
And then I have the a function that was called.
So it's actually show me what's happening on our call stack.
We have the global execution context and then the a function and the error was thrown inside of a while
a was on top of the global execution context.
So as you can see here if we had another function inside of here that was getting called let's call
it C then the error would show up as C A then the anonymous global execution context.
And I can access this even though it prints it out for me by doing the stack.
And as you can see down here we have our error stack which shows us where we were in our call stack
when the air happened this way we see what's responsible for causing that error.
It's almost like seeing your history in action.
Now here's the thing.
The JavaScript has many built in constructors for errors specifically standard ones that you may have
seen before.
You see we have the generic error but there's also new syntax error which you may have seen when you
get an error where in your javascript syntax is off.
For example if I do something like this I get a syntax error Unexpected token because well javascript
doesn't understand this.
There is a syntax issue here.
We also have something like a new reference error which once again you may have seen.
If I do let's say a variable that I haven't defined I'll get a reference error and as you can see here
it automatically throws and has the throw keyword added upon it as soon as we have an error the throw
statement is used to generate are exceptions are errors.
But here's the thing so far.
Errors are useful but what if we wanted to handle them inside of our programs.
For example during our program when a throw statement is encountered an error is thrown our current
function is going to stop and sometimes we might want to catch that error instead of well stopping the
entire program.
So how do we handle them in JavaScript.
Well in JavaScript this is pretty much the system for errors.
This is our call stack and as soon as an error happens on the call stack we go to the execution context
underneath us and say hey is zero cash for us.
Is there something handling this error.
No.
Okay then I'm going to keep going.
Is there a catch.
Is this handle handled anywhere in this part of the execution context.
No.
And if all the way through the call stack there's nothing handling it well we're going to get this on
error function that runs inside of the browser that gives us that red text that we see in no J Yes instead
of the on air we have the process dot on on cut exception so the runtime handles the errors if nothing
in our program catches this.
If the exception always just zoomed straight down to the bottom of the stack.
Well it's not very useful.
Our programs just end the power and the errors and what we're gonna learn about is in the fact that
you can create these little hurdles these little stops along the call stack to catch these exceptions
because once you've caught these exceptions you can do something interesting to address the problem
so that your program doesn't start running.
Instead you handle these errors so that your program keeps running.
So how do we create these obstacles these hurdles.
How do we catch an error in JavaScript for that.
I'll see you in the next video by.